My name's Ed Snowden, I'm 29 years old.
I work for Booz Allen Hamilton as an
Infrastructure Analyst for NSA, in Hawaii.
>> What are some of the positions that
you've held previously within
the Intelligence Community?
>> I've been a System's Engineer, System's
Administrator, Senior Advisor,
for the, Central Intelligence Agency,
Solutions Consultant and
a, Telecommunications Information System's
Officer.
>> One of the things people are gonna be
most interested in,
in, in, in trying to understand what, who
you are, and what you're thinking is?
There came some point in time when you
crossed this line of thinking about being
the [UNKNOWN] Whistleblower to making the
choice to actually become a Whistleblower.
Walk people all through that decision
making process.
>> When you're in positions of, of
Privileged Access, like
a System's Administrator for these sort of
Intelligence Community and Agencies.
You're exposed to a lot more information
on
a broader scale than the average employee.
And because of that, you see things that
may be disturbing.
But over the course of a normal person's
career, you'd only see one or
two of these instances.
When you see everything, you see them on a
more frequent basis, and
you recognize that some of these things
are actually abuses.
And when you talk to people about them in
a place like this where this is the,
the normal state of business.
People tend not to take them very
seriously and you know, move on from them,
but over time that awareness of wrong
doing sort of builds up, and
you feel compelled to talk about it, and
the more you talk about it,
the more you're ignored, the more you're
told it's not a problem.
Until eventually you realize that these
things need to be determined by
the public, not by somebody who is simply
hired by the government.
>> Talk a little bit about how the
American Surveillance State
actually functions that are, does it
target the actions of Americans?
>> NSA and the Intelligence Community in
general is focused on
getting Intelligence whenever it can by
whatever means possible.
That it believes, on the grounds of sort
of self-certification,
that they serve the national interest.
originally, we saw that
focus very narrowly tailored as Foreign
Intelligence gathered overseas.
Now increasingly we see that it's
happening domestically.
And to do that, they the NSA specifically
targets the communications of everyone.
It ingests them by default.
It collects them in its system, and it
filters them and it analyzes them and
it measures them and it stores them.
For periods of time, simply because that's
the easiest, most efficient, and
most valuable way to achieve these ends.
So while they may be intending to target
someone
associated with a Foreign Government or
someone that they suspected terrorism.
They're collecting your communications to
do so.
Any Analysts at any time can target any
selector anywhere.
Where those communications will be picked
up depends on the range of
the Sensor Networks and the authorities
that, that Analyst is empowered with.
Not all Analysts have the ability to
target everything.
But I, sitting in my desk, certainly had
the authorities to, to wire tap anyone.
From you or your accountant,
to a Federal Judge to even the President
if I had a personal email.
>> One of the extraordinary parts about
this episode is that usually about
Whistleblower, do what they do anonymously
and take steps to remain anonymous for
as long as they can, which they hope often
is forever.
You, on the other hand, have decided to do
the opposite,
which is to declare yourself openly as the
person behind these disclosures.
Why did you choose to do that?
>> I, I think that the public is owed an
explanation of the motivations behind
the people who make these disclosures that
are outside of the democratic model.
When you are subverting the power of
government, that's,
that's a fundamentally dangerous thing to
democracy.
And if you do that in secret consistently
you know,
as the government does when it wants to
benefit from a secret action that it took.
It'll kind of give it, it's officials a
mandate to go hey, you know,
tell the press about this thing and thing,
so the public is on our side.
But they rarely if ever do that when abuse
occurs.
That falls to individual citizens.
But, they're typically maligned.
You know, it, it becomes a thing of these
people are against the country.
They're against the government.
But, I'm not.
I'm, I'm no different from anybody else.
I don't have special skills.
I, I'm just another guy who sits there day
to day in the office,
watches what happening, what's happening,
and goes.
This is something that's not our place to
decide.
The public needs to decide whether these
programs and policies are right or wrong.
And I'm willing to go on the record to
defend the authenticity of them and
say, I didn't change these.
I didn't modify the story.
This is the truth.
This is what's happening.
You should decide whether we need to be
doing this.
>> Have you given thought to what it is
that the US
government's response to your conduct is,
in terms of what they might say about you,
how they might try to depict you, what
they might try to do to you?
yeah, I, I could be you know, rendered
from the CIA.
I, I could have people come after me or
any of the their, their third-party
partners.
You know, they would, they work closely
with a number of other nations.
well, you know, they could pay off the
triads, or
you know, any, any of their agents are
assets are.
We;ve, we;'ve got a CIA station just up
the road in the,
the consulate here in Hong Kong.
And I'm sure they're gonna be very busy
for the next week.
And that's, that's a fear I'll live under
for
the rest of my life, however long that
happens to be.
You, you can't come forward against the
world's most powerful
Intelligence Agencies and be completely
free from risk because they're
such powerful adversaries that, that no
one can meaningfully oppose them.
If they want to get you, they'll get you
in time.
But at the same time,
you have to make a determination about
what it is that's important to you?
And if living living living unfreely but
comfortably is something
you're willing to accept, and I think may
of us are, it's, it's the human nature.
You can get up every day.
You can go to work.
You can collect your, your large paycheck
for relatively little work.
Against the public interest, and, and
go to sleep at night after watching your
shows.
But if you realize that that's the world
that you helped create, and
it's gonna get worse with the next
generation and the next generation who
extend the capabilities of this sort of
architecture of oppression.
You realize that you might be willing to
accept any risk, and
it doesn't matter what the outcome is so
long as the public gets to make their own
decisions about how that's applied.
>> Why should people care about
surveillance?
>> Because even if you're not doing
anything wrong,
you're being watched and recorded.
And the, the storage capability of these
systems increases every year.
Consistently by orders of magnitude, to
where it's getting to
the point you don't have to have done
anything wrong, you simply have to
eventually fall under suspicion from
somebody, even by a wrong call.
And then they can use the system to go
back in time and scrutinize every
decision you've ever made, every friend
you've ever discussed something with, and
attack you on that basis to sort of derive
suspicion from an innocent life and
paint anyone into context of a wrong doer.
>> We are currently sitting in a room in,
in Hong Kong of which is where we are
because you traveled here.
Talk a little but about why it is that you
came here, and
specifically they're gonna be people who
will speculate that what you
really intend to do is to defect to the
country that many see as
the number one rival of the United States
which is China.
And that way you're really doing is
essentially seeking to
aid an enemy of the United States,
with, which you intend to seek asylum.
Can you talk a little bit about that?
>> Sure.
So there,
there's a couple of assertions in, in
those arguments that are,
that are sort of embedded in the, the
questioning of the choice of Hong Kong.
The first is that China is an enemy of the
United States.
It, it's not.
I mean, there, there are conflicts between
the United States government and
the Chinese PRC government, but the, the
peoples inherently, you know,
we, we don't care.
We trade with each other freely, you know,
we're not at war, we're not in armed
conflict, and we're not trying to be.
We're, we're the largest trading partners
out there for each other.
additionally, Hong Kong has a strong
tradition of free speech.
People think oh, China, great firewall.
Mainland China does have significant
restrictions on free speech.
But the Hong Kong, the people of Hong
Kong.
Have a long tradition of protesting in the
streets, of making their views known,
that Internet is not filtered here, no
more so
than any Western Government, and I believe
that the Hong Kong government is
actually independent, in relation to a lot
of other leading Western governments.
>> If your motive had been to harm the
United States and help its enemies is, or
if your motive had been personal material
gain, were there things that you could
have done with these documents to advance
those goals that you didn't end up doing?
>> Oh, absolutely.
I mean, an, anybody in the positions of
access with the take,
technical capabilities that I had.
Could, you know, suck out secrets, pass
them on the open market to Russia.
You know, they always have an open door,
as we do.
I had access to, you know, the, the full
rosters of everyone working at the NSA,
the entire intelligence community.
And undercover assets all around the
world.
The locations of every station.
We have what their missions are, and so
forth.
If I had just wanted to harm the US, you,
you know, that, you could shut down the,
the Surveillance System in an afternoon.
But that's not my intention, and I, I
think for anyone making that argument,
they need to think, if they were in my
position and you know,
you live a privileged life, you, you're
living in Hawaii in paradise and
making a ton of money.
What would it take to make you leave
everything behind?
The, the greatest fear that I have
regarding the outcome for
America of these as closures, is that
nothing will change.
People will see in the media all of these
as closures.
They'll know the lengths that the,
the government is going to grant
themselves powers, unilaterally,
to create greater control over American
Society and Global Society.
But they, they won't be willing to take
the risks necessary to stand up and
fight to change things,
to force their representatives to actually
take a stand in their interests.
And the months ahead, the, the years
ahead, it's only gonna get worse
until eventually there will be a time
where policies will change.
Because the only thing that restricts the
activities of
the surveillance state are policy.
Even in our agreements with, with other
Sovereign Governments,
we consider that to be a stipulation of
policy rather than a stipulation of law.
And because of that, a new leader will be
elected, they'll flip the switch say that
because of the crisis, because of the
dangers that we face in the world,
you know, some, some new and
unpredicted threat we need more authority,
we need more power.
And there will be nothing the people can
do at that point to oppose it.
And it'll be Turnkey Tyranny.